---
author: Fabian Schuh
title: Blockchain Technology in 2016
---

The year 2016 will be the year of blockchain technologies, such as Bitcoin, but with many more services to offer on a global scale. Core concepts have always been a public ledger that is distributed and is updated by a decentralized and trust-less protocol. This protocol is written in code, can be audited and thus can't cheat you.

<!--more-->

For these reasons, the blockchain technology has first been applied to improve (some might even say replace) the current banking system. For thousands of years, banks have been the key accelerators of commerce. Today, at Internet speeds, business actually slows down when it passes through the banks. The benefit of blockchains is to reduce that friction by eliminating costs, enforcing regulations, and increasing security. And that is true not only for banking:

* First Generation blockchains aimed to replace banks
* The Second Generation allowed everyone to create and trade your own currencies
* In the Third generation, whole businesses have been put into the blockchain to compete not only with banking, but exchange, gaming, voting, social media, micropayments, crowdfunding and many more.
* Today, the Fourth Generation of blockchain technology can put the entire Internet of Everything on a blockchain of things, i.e. the blockchain internet protocol (BCIP)

In the last three years, we have seen three revolutions:

* From a Currency to a Company
* From a Company to an Ecosystem
* From the Ecosystem to the Internet of Everything

Soon, every website and every device will be on one frictionless blockchain and the internet of things will be interoperable by means of the blockchain protocol (BCIP).

For us, blockchains serve as a platform that others can build on. Web Applications can make one common blockchain look like many different things to its users. With the right choice of web application we can bypass the crypto learning curve for novice users and give them an experience that makes the block chain look like a wallet, a checking account, an e-trade platform, a store front or a voting booth.
