---
title: Privacy and Confidentiality via STEALTH Transfers
---

With out recent blockchain protocol upgrade and the corresponding front-end update, we are now pleased to provide the *Privacy Mode*. Here we offer you Privacy **and** Confidentiality. The former allows to hide the involved parties of transfers, while the latter hides the actual amounts involved in transfers.

In practise, the Privacy Mode combines the techniques of Oleg Andreev's [blinding signatures](http://blog.oleganza.com/post/77474860538/blind-signatures) to hide the amount of a transfer and [stealth addresses](https://sx.dyne.org/stealth.html) (similar to TITAN in BitShares 1) to hide involved parties.

For the sake of convenience for the users this innovations comes bundles with hosted wallets to ensure that users do not loose access to their private funds as they would otherwise require regular backups (which are recommended if you use the privacy mode frequently)

Howto Use Stealth
-----------------

In the wallet (the hosted wallet, or the light client), Stealth transfers can be used in the *Privacy Mode* and requires private accounts (if you own them), or private contacts (if you want to send funds somewhere else).

Step-By-Step:

1. Create your own **Private-Account** (the account name will be registered)
2. Fund your Private-Account by sending to `~accountname` with a tilde at the beginning. Note, that even though your account has been registered on the blockchain, no one will be able to link that transfer with your private account.
3. Make sure to write down the receipt of the transaction! If you lose this receipt, your funds will be lost!
4. If you want to pay someone in private mode, get his private account name, send the funds to `~accountname` and hand over the receipt to him! Without that receipt, the other party will not be able to claim the transfered funds!

Management Account and Future Funding
-------------------------------------

The [STEALTH asset](https://github.com/bitshares/bsips/blob/master/bsip-0008.md) (the first of several coming [Fee Backed Assets](https://github.com/bitshares/bsips/blob/master/bsip-0007.md)) will be issued by the *management account*. Onceuponatime as the solve funder will be the initial owner of the issued asset. This management account will have 3-of-5 multi-signature authority assigned to the 5 largest STEALTH holders weighted proportional to stake and will have the power to set the fee for private transfers.
