---
title: Successfull Blockchain Protocol Upgrade (wait, what?)
---

Some of our readers might have missed it, so here it is:

**BitShares 2.0 is now BitShares 2.0.3, or was it 2.1 :-P**

<!--more-->

Turns out, it makes no sense to change our nice branding of BitShares 2.0 although Jeff Garzik officially declares us a Bitcoin 3.0 network. Already confused? Let's start from scratch!

History lessons, take a seat
----------------------------

BitShares 2.0 has been release in November 2015 and is our branding name to distinguish us from the inferior BitShares 0.9 (that didn't even make it to 1.0). The old network has been mostly abandoned and even the block producers don't participate in BitShares 0.9 any longer which renders the old network useless.

With the successful transition to BitShares **2.0** (we called it *pitch fork* back then), we now have a superior underlying technology that is capable to store way more smart contracts and businesses that any other distributed ecosystem could possibly shelter.

Then there are these strange *network upgrades*. Ordinary called *hard forks*, they represent improvements of the underlying blockchain protocol. These improvements could be anything, literally. Starting at easy tweaks to allow more sophisticated business decisions, via adding new smart contract businesses up to adding the Ethereum Virtual Machine to allow Ethereum Contracts to run within BitShares. Unfortunately, *hard forks* come with a bad taste give that in Bitcoin they happened by accident and result in double spends. Since BitShares is capable of **strictly organizing** these kind of forks, we call them *network upgrades* to distinguish them from accidental *hard forks*, that never happened in BitShares and close to impossible due to our superior consensus algorithm *Delegated Proof of Stake*.

As an example, our latest network upgrade introduced the foundations for so called Fee Backed Assets (more on these later) and STEALTH transfers (more on these later, as well). That upgrade was executed successfully by our witnesses on 23. of February with no incidents and nothing to report. Quite boring compared to the hype around Bitcoin hard- and or soft-forks or Ethereum's release cycle.

Sorry for shameless plug, let's get back on track.

Consequences of tha BitShares 2.0 Upgrade
-----------------------------------------

Now we know about BitShares 2.0 and its protocol upgrades but what do different parties need to do?

The **community** consisting of sharehodlers and community members (potentially intersecting groups) is currently developing a formal process for these networks upgrades. Eventually, we will see regular upgrades that might come with more than just a few new features. To don't bother our partners with bi-weekly upgrades and to have more time for testing, we will eventually see a process that allows network upgrades every 6-12 months and a whole set of requirements to be fulfilled in order to qualify for the coming upgrades that will also be announced properly.

For **partners** that run their own full node or hosted wallet, all they need to do is upgrade their node before the upgrade dates. Please take a look at the [BitShares-2 Github releases](http://github.com/bitshares/bitshares-2) and consider subscribing there to get notified about most recent releases. If you don't upgrade your node in time, your node will probably get stuck right after the date of the network upgrade. It also makes sense to join the [Slack group](http://slack.bitshares.org) which has a channel just for partners. Additionally to your full nodes, you may also want to keep your hosted wallet up-to-date with most recent features to also offer them to your customers.

For **customers**, nothing really changes. Those partners that have their public API node integrated into the reference light wallet will have their full nods be up-to-date in time so that you can keep your installed wallet as is. However, if you want to enjoy most recent front-end updates and see new features you should probably update your light client once in a while even though most network upgrades will not require you to do so.
